---
title: CHIP8
date: 2019-03-09
draft: false
description: ""
tags:
archive:
    - 2019
---

GitHub: [chip8](https://github.com/jwoos/go_chip8)  
Demo: N/A

<!-- more -->

<asciinema-player src="/demo/go_chip8.json" cols="290" rows="32"></asciinema-player>

I've always been interested in emulation - it seemed incredible that we could bring back past hardware and software. In fact I wanted to take a try at building my own - but before diving into the deep end I wanted to try something simple. CHIP8 was one of the recommended beginner emulator projects so I decided to dive in.

I read [this reference](http://devernay.free.fr/hacks/chip8/C8TECH10.HTM) and based my implementation off of this. It had everything I needed!

# Building it
The first thing to figure out was how I was going to structure the code. I had a `System` struct that handled almost everything. Looking back, I wish I had separated out the display and input. The struct had the system configuration options, registers, stack, and memory. The registers and memory were simply represented as a byte slice. However, for the stack I chose to write a wrapper around the slice and get rid of the stack pointer. The stack pointer was no longer needed as it became internal to the stack and I could just push and pop without worrying about the index.

It will loop listening for a halt signal on a channel - if it isn't received, it will read and run the next opcode. The clock speed is variable and can be set up to a maximum of 1000 Hz (1 ms/loop). The actual opcode execution is just a massive switch statement, mapping all the possible opcodes. All the instructions were implemented and have been tested to work (to a degree). The rest of the implementation is pretty boring except the few things I will point out below.

## Timers
The reference states that CHIP8 has two timers: sound and delay. These times decrease at a steady rate of 60 Hz (with no mention of clock speed). I initially, included it in the clock loop, but because of the variable clock speed this clearly wouldn't work. I chose to use a separate goroutine running on a ticker from `time` and decrementing the timers if necessary. This separated the two ideas and allowed them to coexist.

## Display
For displaying, I used [termbox](https://github.com/nsf/termbox-go). It was very simple to use, especially when compared with ncurses. However, it was a bit minimalistic but for my project it was more than enough. I held a buffer of the display which I would then sync with the actual display after I finished updating it.

## Input
I also used termbox for input, as it handles inputs to terminals. I have a separate goroutine running to handle inputs and set state. However, there is one thing that's a bit of a hack due to running in a terminal. It can't detect whether a button is being held down so I decided to use variable key timeouts. This can be set using a flag and determines for how long the key should be considered to be pressed down.

# Conclusion
Although this was probably very simple compared to actual hardware system, being an interpreter and all, I feel like it was a good start. Hopefully it helps when I'm building my next emulator!
